hi everybody so as you may or may not
know although most people know if
they're vaguely awake um bench perro and
Tom McDonald have the number one song in
the world at the moment and it's very
comical because it's a rap song and just
the idea of bencho doing rap hip hop is
comical in and of itself it's even more
comical because you know he's been a
Critic of that particular genre so it's
very interesting to watch Ben step out
of his presuppositions let's say and
also his domain of previous competence
although he is a musician
anyways on with the
analysis they call me offensive
controversial it's only two genders boys
and girls okay well the first thing we
might point out here with regards to use
of language is that Tom does use genders
and I think that's actually a what would
you say that's an interpretive mistake
because he should have used
Sexes um by using genders he fell into
the Trap that the leftists have laid
with regards to language utilization
they're very very good
at what would you occupying the
linguistic
terrain um there are a variety of
temperaments and that's easy to get
confused with gender and that's part of
the reason we have the problem we have
and Sexes would have worked because it's
also a two- syllable word and it's a
minor critique but in some ways it seems
peun which means minor but it's it isn't
it's more important than that because if
you let your political opponents gain
the linguistic territory then they win
right you can't once you use their words
they win so that's something for
everybody to keep in mind you can't
cancel my message cuz I'm the biggest
independent rapper in the whole freaking
world CL that I'm racist y right I'm not
ashamed because I'm white if every
Caucasian a bigot I guess every muslim's
a terrorist every liberal is right so
with regards to every Caucasian being a
bigot and his claim that then therefore
every Muslim is a terrorist and every
liberal is Right which is you know
definitely not correct direct especially
if you're talking about the progressive
mob the fundamental problem with the
there there's a variety of fundamental
problems with the
woke algorithm reductive algorithm or
ideology
that Ben and Tom are criticizing we did
research back in 2016 looking at
political correct politically correct
authoritarianism and and that was back
when psychologists were just starting to
analyze left-wing authoritarianism and
we found that the best predictors of
being a left-wing authoritarian were
being not verbally intelligent that was
a walloping predictor it was the
variable most most closely associated
with intelligence that I had ever seen
including grades and so if you're not
very bright the woke idiology is very
attractive to you the second best
predictor was being female the third
best predictor was having a female
temperament the fourth best predictor
was ever having taken a course that had
the woke ideology as a portion of it now
we are noting all over the world now
that men and women's political beliefs
are segregating and so that's a
reflection of the fact that this woke
ideology is also a perversion of the
basic female ethos it's the extension of
compassion far beyond its relevant
domain and it's an extension as a
consequence of Pride so the women who
are doing this there's men are doing it
too especially those that have a more
feminine
temperament they're making the claim
that their love is so encompassing that
everything can be brought into the
circle right even the snake and that's
the Eternal sin of Eve by the way so so
so there's a group
identification claim the fundamental
claim essentially is the world can be
divided into victims and victimizers the
victims are like infants they're always
good they're always always innocent the
victimizers are essentially Predators so
you can see the feminine ethos in that
the problem with that is when you start
to apply it to groups you completely
demolish the presumption of individual
innocence and there's no difference
between the demolition of that
presumption and the imposition of a
totalitarian state so now you might say
there can't be that much information in
those few lines but the whole point of
poetry with its Reliance on imagery is
to pack way more information into
utterances than you could otherwise
manage and so
a a dense poem which is the use of words
to produce images can have levels of
meaning that are almost inexhaustible
that's partly why we remember poetry and
and poetic poetic verse let's say image
Laden poetic verse will remember
remember that for centuries because it's
literally inexhaustible they say a
picture is worth a thousand words it's
like well a complex picture is worth a
lot more than a thousand words and words
can bring images to mind
[Music]
go woke go broke you know it's a nice
rhyme but there's something there too
and what Tom is pointing to is that if
you construe yourself as a victim and
you
develop no and you have an external
locus of control that's the technical
term from the psychology research um
literature then you believe that you are
nothing but a pawn of circumstances that
are beyond your control and you adopt
the guise of powerlessness now if you
could gain a moral Advantage from that
you know that's a secondary gain that's
how that would be interpreted from a
psychoanalytic perspective it's doing
something that isn't good for you
because there's a payoff and so if you
construe yourself as a victimizer you
only believe you're moved about by
external forces you won't develop a
vision of your own and that will mean
that you're anxious and confused because
you're being buffered around by the
winds of external forces it'll mean you
have no direction in your life and that
makes you hopeless the combination of
those two things will mean that you have
no motivation and the consequence of
that and we know this perfectly well
because highly motivated people are much
more likely to be economic economically
successful the consequence of that is
that you won't have any money and then
of course you'll use that to buttress
your claim to victim status and then
you're in a loop that's the dragon that
eats its own tail by the way that's a
symbol of chaos and then you're
basically in hell so uh I wouldn't
recommend that you know as a clinical
psychologist which I still am by the way
so all right next line Pro Choice
progressin prot okay now here's here's
something else to understand so imagine
that
you're you know compassionate in your
basic ethos so you have a more feminine
temperament you're high in agreeableness
now but you're also full of Pride and so
you want to overclaim the utility of
that and bring everything to you clutch
the poisonous serpent to your breath
rest as I pointed out okay so what's the
problem with that well this has been
modeled very well um even
computationally we understand this make
no mistake about that so imagine you set
up a society that's full of agreeable
people who do nothing but
cooperate fine and they all get along
and that can be extraordinarily
productive as long as people keep acting
in that reciprocally altruistic manner
which means they treat you treat someone
well and they treat you well back that
can be extremely productive and that's
actually the basis of a productive
Society one of the basis it's not enough
though because you need enforcement and
that's why you need men with spines and
the reason for that is that if you have
a whole community of Cooperators and you
drop one cheater into the mix one shark
he will eat everything and so what the
you can see this you see this happening
for example when Seattle set up its its
Progressive City it took like two weeks
before it was controlled by armed gangs
this exactly the same thing happened
happened in Alberta recently by the way
with all the tent cities so as soon as
you have a a place of victimized people
run by the hyper compassionate the
bloody thugs move in and then you better
watch yourself and if you think that's
not and then of course if you're
hyper if you're prideful and Hyper
compassionate you're going to think oh
the poor thugs they just had it rough
when they were children you know and a
lot of them did but I'll tell you
something else about that and that is
that there's a lot of people who had it
rough as children who don't turn into
like Psych AIC Thugs and you all you
hyper compassionate people who are out
there like feeling sorry for the
criminals you wait till they show up in
your bloody house you'll be thinking
twice about that and we've seen no
shortage of that on the victimized
liberal side people who get mugged out
in the street after they defund the
police and short circuit because oh my
god look I got attacked it's like yeah
well you enabled the Psychopaths and I
wouldn't recommend that so that's what
happens compassion defund the police no
protection rule by psychopath yeah I
wouldn't recommend that where the
American flags at remember when people
would hang those they've been taken down
they all been replaced with BLM Flags or
a rainbow okay so flag the flag idea man
that's a complicated idea so the idea of
a flag is something like the idea of a
staff and a staff well you have a staff
if you run a business and the staff is
something you rely on a staff is
something that supports you a staff is
something that moves you forward a staff
is something that helps you find your
way a a flag is a staff with a banner
and so the banner is something around
which everyone can unite a flag is a
uniting symbol okay so what's a rainbow
flag well let's think about it it's a
flag of division literally because a
rainbow is the division of a Unity
what's white into a plurality what's a
rainbow and you can't have a Unity of
plurality well you can in a world where
a man can be a woman you can have a
Unity of plurality and I'll tell you
that's the reign of utter chaos now we
already pointed out that the reign of
utter chaos brings in the psychopath the
true oppressors the real victimizers and
so and it this pride
flag what what would you say um waving
this Proclamation this praying in the
streets this this false moralizing is a
way of once again proclaiming to the
world that your compassion is so
overwhelming and inclusive
that you can love the whole world you
know and that's fine except for the
snakes and you know you can imagine why
women do that because in some ways they
want to advertise to men that they're
going to be good Mothers you know and
that is what they're doing even if they
don't know it and then you might ask
well why would men do it and I'll tell
you what sort of men do that the sort of
men who do that have no masculine
utility whatsoever and so they ape
feminine utility they act like girls
that's a good way of thinking about it
then they can be a friend well hopefully
a friend with sexual benefits right and
so loser men use false compassion
pridefully as a way of attracting stupid
women and they're particularly good at
doing that if they're Psychopathic and
the data on that are very clear because
young women especially naive young women
are much more likely to be sexually
victimized by Psychopaths and
narcissists and you might ask well how
will the Psychopaths and narcissists
close themselves and the answer is that
they're not going to come out with shark
teeth on man because then you know who
they were they're going to tell you how
nice they are how lovely they are and
how they care for everything in the
world it's like you better take that
with a grain of salt cuz if you don't
you're going to pay for it so we'll get
back to that to that particular Motif as
we
progress we ain't selling drugs we ain't
going to overdose we ain't pushing guns
and promoting stripper POS we won't turn
your sons into thugs or your daughters
into okay Sons into Thugs and your
daughters into hoes
yeah that's a great juxtaposition all of
that so the first thing Tom is doing is
singing about Hedonism right and that's
the pursuit of say easy sex and and
materialist markers of localized success
right and so then you might say well
what sort of people pursue short-term
mating strategies because that's the
technical biological definition who are
looking for easy sex one night stands
and who parade around their shallow
materialism and the answer is we already
talked about these people we know this
short-term mating preference is
associated with the dark tetrad
narcissism so that's the desire for
unearned social status melanism so
that's the willingness to use
manipulation to get what you want
psychopathy so the worst criminals are
psychopaths by the way psychopaths are
predatory parasites that's a bad
combination now first of all those were
the only three traits that were studied
but that didn't work out very well
because it turned out there there was a
missing variable and that was sadism so
if you're a psychopathic narcissist
mellian you also end up wanting to hurt
other people for your own pleasure and
those are the people who are engaging in
the hedonistic strategy right short-term
pleasure you see this and they're the
ones that'll enslave you you see this in
the in the Disney movie Pinocchio it's
beautifully portrayed because the little
thugs Pinocchio Falls in with the bad
crowd little thugs um LED by lampwick by
the way and lampwick is a reference to
Lucifer and Lucifer is the prideful
intellect by the way and so Pinocchio
who's trying to become real follows
lampwick and The Coachman who's like
Satan himself to Pleasure Island where
they do things like desecrate classic
works of art we've seen plenty of that
lately and they turn into braying
jackasses who are then enslaved by dark
Forces operating behind the scenes you
remember that go watch that that section
of the movie and see if you can figure
out what the hell it means so what does
it mean there's something deep here this
Thug ho thing is extremely deep so I'm
going to read you something um that
you'll find quite interesting here so
this is from The Book of Revelation and
it's quite a shocking um a shocking
account this is really a hallucinogenic
vision and so this is the vision in
Revelation 7 1718 one of the Seven
Angels who had the seven bowls came and
said to me come I will show you you the
judgment on the great prostitute who
sits on many Waters okay so the great
prostitute is the mother of all
prostitutes right so it's
disinhibited it's the essence of
disinhibited female sexuality and what
does it mean that it sits on many Waters
well water in the biblical account is a
symbol of chaos and so the underneath
disinhibited female sexuality is chaos
itself right the chaos that devours
everything with whom the kings of the
earth committed sexual immorality and
Earth's inhabitants were made drunk with
the wine of her sexual immorality well
we can see the emergence of the of
Babylon because that's what that is
Babylon being the great state by the way
we can see that emergence in the
technological transformation of women
into what would you say um succubi and
incubi that's a very good way of
thinking about it right so sexually
attractive apparitions that take
everyone's Vitality so that's real fun
the the account continues and he carried
me away in the power of the spirit into
a Wilderness and I saw a woman the same
woman the the of Babylon sitting
on a Scarlet colored wild beast so
that's blood colored essentially that
was full of Blasphemous names and that
had seven heads and 10 horns okay so
this is the Beast of the state and the
multiplicity of heads that's what occurs
when the state no longer has its Unity
so you could associate that for example
with the with the pride flag the rainbow
idea the notion that diversity can be be
a Unity it's the collapse of a Unity as
a consequence of the death of God into
the Beast of the state okay so what
rides on the Beast of the state the
idiot Hedonism that power mad tyrants
entice you with to turn you into slaves
right now this hallucinogenic account is
a image Laden imaginative description of
how societies collapse as such so how
they collapse in
eternity so the woman was clothed in
purple and Scarlet and she was adorned
with gold and precious stones and Pearls
so she's beautiful and attractive and
looks valuable and that's her cover
story and she had her hand in her hand a
golden cup same sort of thing a golden
cup is generally the container of the
redeeming fluid let's say the redeeming
liquid the Water of Life the blood of
Christ and so this is a an inversion of
that it's it's uh the golden cup that
was full of disgusting things and the
unclean things of her sexual immorality
so that's pretty damn rough image you
might say and that's what she's offering
the world to drink great on her forehead
was written the name a mystery a mystery
Babylon the great the mother of the
prostitutes and of the disgusting things
of the earth okay well that's fun now I
wrote a whole article about that called
identity individual and the state versus
the subsidiary hierarchy of Heaven I
wrote that for for the alliance for
responsible citizenship with Jonathan
Paso where we took apart this particular
imagery so what happens in the
Revelation story is the the of
Babylon sits on the degenerate beast of
the state offering everyone hedonic
Delights allied with power and the Beast
eventually kills the and so what
does that mean it means the bloody
tyrants will offer you everything you
want you can have it right now just like
the half wit dim wits in Pinocchio's
Treasure Island but eventually they will
take everything like that from you and
you can see that already not least in
the fact that
young people are becoming sexually
sated and and overflowing in a manner
that's actually stopping them from
forming relationships stopping them from
getting married stopping them from being
with one another staying virginal like
the the end result of hedonic Lous and
this is what Tom is pointing to the end
result of that is that nobody ever gets
anything pleasurable at all right so I
wouldn't recommend that either so let
continue I don't if
iend I was put
to okay so let's think about offense for
a minute okay so here's why you have
ideas now you have ideas so you can
Orient yourself in the world in
abstraction now you might want to think
something through before you do it
because if the thing you want to do is
stupid and you think it through and you
understand that you will come to a
Bitter End if you pursue that course
then you can kill that idea now maybe
you're kind of fond of that idea and
you've invested a lot in it so there's
going to be some godamn pain when you
kill your own stupid ideas and that'll
make you offensive to yourself now maybe
you can offer those ideas to other
people you know and you you offer them
you say what do you think of this and
they go after you hard and they kill the
idea well of course that's going to hurt
your feelings because it's part of you
that's dying but it's a stupid part that
doesn't mean there's not going to be any
pain associated with it and so this is
it's often the people who oppose your
ideas most dreadfully who are in some
sense the force that keeps your
stupidity in check now that's not always
the case but it's frequently the case
and so what this means you have to
understand what this means is there's no
genuine critical thought without hurt
feelings do you understand that no
critical thought without hurt feelings
okay then so then you say well we'll
dispense with critical thought because
we don't want anybody's feelings to be
hurt then then they wander off a cliff
and die and so that's not a good
substitute we evolve thinking so our
stupid thoughts could die instead of us
now the death of a thought is still
something that's associated with a
certain degree of emotional
disregulation because the chaos that
that thought constrained is released
when that thought dies and the Future
Vision that was associated with that
thought disappears as well and so
there's a certain amount of dissolution
of Hope but it's better to have your
stupid thought die than for you to
suffer directly physically or even die
and so if we inst Institute a rule that
critically minded people so those would
be disagreeable people the same people
you rely on by the way if you're
compassionate to protect you from the
you know the idiot Hedon hedonistic
thugs if you forbid people's ability to
speak in a manner that some especially
the prideful victimizers regard as
offensive that's no different than
stopping them from being able to think
critically and you know thought has
three components you you know you ask a
question you receive an answer but then
you have to evaluate the answer and you
evaluate the answer with critical
thinking and in so far as you do that
you're going to cause emotional distress
you're going to be offensive so now when
Ben the entire song rotates around the
notion of facts and facts versus
feelings well feelings can Orient you in
the world right they give us a first
pass low resolution quick Instinct Laden
manner of evaluating the world literally
evaluating it telling the difference
between what's good and what's not but
we've Allied that with a much more
differentiated communication system that
enables us to build a representation of
something approximating the objective
world and what we generally do is we
refine our emotional commitments with
the facts that we gather around us
because we could be led astray by our
instant Instinct so for example the
Instinct of a compassionate woman is
going to be to feel sorry for like
everything and everyone and fair enough
you know because there's lots of misery
in the world and there are true infants
and there are children that need to be
taken care of and there are old people
and there are sick people it's like so I
would say to women it's like go out and
find someone that actually needs to be
taken care of that would take some work
have a child for example instead of
inventing victims so that you could
pretend to be female and so that's
exactly what's going on here so all
right continue
you can cry you can scream you can ride
in the street okay there we go all right
so here's another way that feelings can
be perverted by the
narcissistic now if you
cry that's a distress cry and you're
you're you're showing that you're
dissolving you're dissolving in the salt
water of tears and what's dissolving is
your adaptive stability right you can't
handle it you can't manage that's why
you cry you're
overwhelmed and the cry signifies that
the tears and the lack of ability to
speak because you can't speak when
you're when you're really sobbing it's a
distress cry that's sent out to the
world to gather attention and resources
okay now if you're a child and you're
crying because you're I don't know you
have a diaper pin stuck in you to use a
example from like 60 years ago you know
you're too hot or you're too cold and
all you can do is lay there so what you
got you can cry you know and that brings
attention to you and then care and now
attention is a very valuable resource
okay so what does that mean it means
pain cries can be gamed by narcissistic
Psychopaths that's what it means and so
we know this because obviously the worst
people are going to guise themselves in
the highest form of moral virtue that's
the essence of hypocrisy and so if
you're a whiny crying victim and you
attract attention in consequence well
then you're gaming the system that was
used that was that was cobbled together
as a consequence of a lengthy
evolutionary process to ensure the care
of dependent infants you're mimicking
that you know and that's that's a what
what that's a terrible form of theft
you're taking from the people who are
genuinely in need and you're deflecting
all that attention to yourself and why
are you doing that well so that you
don't have to bear responsibility for
your own life how's that so that you can
sponge off on someone stupid enough to
feel sorry for you and then you can wave
your bloody flag of moral your your
divisive flag of moral virtue out in the
streets instead of like going to
volunteer in a hospital to take care of
sick children or having a baby for
example which is where all that
Superfluous maternal Instinct should
most genuinely be directed we know
perfectly well as I said earlier that
being a a woman and being female are the
second and third best predictors of
being a politically correct
authoritarian well how about if we made
the hypothesis that that's a perversion
of the maternal Instinct that isn't
being utilized properly by young women
between the ages of 18 and 30 who are
far more likely to be Progressive than
any other kind of person if we're going
to like have a serious conversation
about this we're always too godamn
cowardly to do that so all right so
that's
that
I what okay so Tom asked what would Ben
do now this brings us to a disc
discussion of personality so it's one of
the things that makes this video so
compelling and interesting is that Ben
and Tom are quite different in
personality in a subtle way um although
the overt manifestations of that aren't
subtle at all Tom is a crazy looking
bastard you know metal teeth um tattooed
to the hilt crazy hairstyle like he's
quite the monster now I did a study at
Harvard 30 years ago 40 years ago um
with a colleague of mine I won't say her
name because I don't know if she would
be happy about it or not I mean we're
still friends but anyways we didn't
publish this study unfortunately but
this study was done just when piercing
and tattooing entered the mainstream and
it was starting to become a fad um a
contagious fad and so we were interested
because we were both personality
psychologists and psychopathologists in
whether or not that proclivity to tattoo
and to pierce was a marker of
Psychopathology potential for mental
illness or maladjusted personality now
we thought it might be because up until
that point all of that had been part of
like circus subculture or prison
subculture there was a there was a a a
subculture that was characterized by
pierces and tattooing but they were
always Outsiders often The Outsiders who
run am parks for example often Carneys
or prisoners so the genuinely
marginalized now what we found was that
there was no association between that
proclivity and psychopathology but that
it was a marker for the fifth
personality Dimension openness which is
essentially openness is a openness to
experience is the technical name it's a
combination of imaginative creativity
and aesthetic sensibility and interest
in ideas and verbal fluency and that's
where Tom and Ben really split they're
both very very high in openness because
they're very creative people and that's
associated with verbal intelligence and
being able to wrap is a marker of verbal
intelligence and verbal fluency which is
associated with articulate with the
ability to articulate and that in turn
is associated with a high probability of
success in the world and so part of the
reason that rap artists are attractive
is because they're manifesting their
intelligence in a creative way and
that's a signal of their General utility
it's a display of their intelligence now
Ben and Tom do this in very different
ways so you could imagine that Tom is an
imaginative genius right he's the same
kind of strange character let's say as
Marilyn Manson and and David Bowie and
and Mick Jagger and and and Russell
Brand for that matter these extremely
showy people who are geniuses of
imaginative Association right and so
they're working at the level of the
dream they're they're in the image
domain and now they can translate that
into words to some degree as well and
and that makes them poet so a poet is an
intermediary between the semantic and
the linguistic and the imaginative and
then you can imagine that there are
experts of creativity some of them are
experts of imagination and some of them
are experts of word and Ben is an
absolute bloody master of word although
he's not anywhere near as open on the
aesthetic side as Tom Ben's quite a
conservative person now he's very very
high in conscientiousness orderliness
dutifulness that goes along with
patriotism and so forth he very high in
that but you know he he's a very
conservative looking person short
haircut you know uniform suits
essentially but unbelievably verbal and
so that makes him a rapper it's
interesting to see him working with Tom
because Ben with his almost purely
verbal intellect although he's
interested in music you know so so it's
not a un dimensional guy but he can Ally
with Tom to delve into the imaginative
realm and that's what they did with this
with this rap video which obviously
caught the spirit of the times because
it's the number one song in the world at
the moment which is like absolutely
hilarious Beyond conception that Ben
Shapiro is now you know a star rapper
it's especially comical because he also
criticized rap because it's excesses
offended his his excesses offended his
conservative temperament you know and
there was some utility in that in so far
as it's a culture that promotes the thug
ho juxtaposition and thus the horror of
Babylon and the Scarlet Beast which is
not really a very good idea but you
could argue on the open side that he
failed to understand the cultural
significance of hip hop and rap as a as
a genuine expression of artistic
Endeavor and creative intelligence and
so but being somewhat exploratory in his
nature even aesthetically he decided to
go ahead with this rap song and
collaborate with Tom and they look like
people on the opposite End of the
Universe and the collaboration produced
something that was quite Stellar now you
can take tremendous liberties with your
imagination right so that's what
creativity is tremendous liberties with
imagination you can dream all sorts of
insane things well why because you don't
act them out when you dream you're
literally paralyzed so you can't go
around and act out your stupid
imaginative ideas and die right and so
but you experiment like mad now the
problem with that broad experimentation
is that a lot of it's going to be noise
rather than signal a lot of it's going
to be off the mark So then you might ask
well how do you how do you see which of
your creative ideas the plentitude of
creative ideas that you've produced are
off the mark and one answer is you talk
to other people and you get their
critical feedback but that's
particularly useful when you're doing
that with someone like Ben because Ben
has a very very high level of verbal
intelligence like it's off the charts
and verbal fluency as well but he's also
quite disagreeable impolite and so that
means he'll tell you what he bloody well
thinks and you might say Well that's
pretty hard on me it's like no it's hard
on your stupid ideas now if you're
desperately identified with your stupid
ideas then that's going to feel to you
like a death you know and so and you
might fight to the death to protect
yourself from that happening but that's
not wise because you should subject your
ideas to stress test so Tom's radical
imagination has Allied itself with his
admiration for Ben and I don't just mean
within this video obviously Tom is an
admirer of Ben and the reason for that
is because Tom has enough humility to
subject his wild imagination to the
critical evaluation of the intellect so
openness to experience bifurcates into
interest in ideas and interest in
Aesthetics and the really wild creative
artist types are high in interest in
Aesthetics women are slightly higher in
that by the way too whereas and they're
interested in fiction for example
compared to non-fiction and they're
interested in people rather than things
that all Stacks up on that side of the
openness equation whereas the the more
cutting cut and dried intellectual types
like Ben they're more they're they're
more um well they're less elusive in
their thought processes and they're more
allied with the forces that criticize
thought and hone it rather than
generating in it in this imaginative
sense now that's a lovely playoff right
because you're in a stellar position if
you can have a collaboration in your own
mind like the one that Tom and Ben
established where you have someone who's
wildly creative talking to someone who's
wildly critical because then you get a
plethora of ideas and you can kill all
the stupid ideas off until you're left
with just the like shining examples of
the most brilliant ideas and then you
don't die because you're stupid and
imaginative and everybody benefits from
your creativity so anyway so that's why
Tom is turning to Ben and that's that's
uh one element of the creative logos
turning to the other so it's so here's
another way of thinking about this so
when God throws Adam and Eve out of out
of paradise he sets up these cherubim
they're monsters monstrous Angels
terrifying and they are accompanied by
this sword that's on fire that turns
every Wich way so this is a sword that
cuts and burns from which you cannot
Escape right that's what it means to for
it to turn every Wich way and you might
say well why would Paradise be barred by
a sword like that and by monstrous forms
and the answer is well nothing stupid
and weak and useless you know in the in
the fundamental sense is allowed to
exist in heaven that's the place where
only anything that's perfect can can
make its can make its entrance and so
that means everything that is unworthy
has to be cut and burned away and so
then you can imagine too that if you
were stacked to the gills with unworthy
thoughts and proclivities and
imaginative routines then those cherubs
wielding that sword would look to you
like like the Devil Himself and you're
passing through that cutting process
would feel like hell so critical
thinking is a burning and cutting
operation right it's what gets rid of
the Deadwood and that's partly why we
have to allow people to have free speech
so that we can have these battles in
abstraction so that we don't have to act
out our stupid ideas and then have
battles in reality right because once we
lose the ability to argue abstractly we
we revert to to fighting right because
arguments are abstracted Wars that's
what they are an argument is an
abstracted War now it can be a civilized
war in which it's got a g in which case
it has a game-like aspect but make no
mistake about it if you remove people's
ability to speak freely and engage in
verbal conflict something Ben is
absolutely superb at then you devolve
the conflict into action and you get a
chaotic War right and we're on the brink
of that in multiple ways so this isn't
some mere abstraction that the
philosophical or the literary-minded are
preoccupied with because they have
nothing better to do quite the contrary
let's just keep it real fact don't how
you feel man if you want my PRS I'm the
man I'm the man who don't respect look
at the stats got the my money likez my
pockets are fatom I'm epic don't be a w
dog yomie No Cap okay so this is this is
like ridiculously funny and and Ben is
ridiculously funny and he does it with
his straight face and so he's pointing
to something here too which is that he
has a long-term orientation as a
conscientious person right so he's
willing to sacrifice the hedonistic
pleasures of the of the present to the
Future he's got a long-term Vision
that's also what makes him not a
short-term Mater not a psychopath not a
narcissist not a maavalan not a sadist
he sacrifices in the present to gather
good things in the future that's one of
the things that makes him a reliable
husband and a reliable provider for
children and what he's trying to point
out to the people who are listening in
his tongue and cheek Manner and quite
comically is that you know you can
pursue hes and cars and flashy gold and
live in the moment like a overgrown
three-year-old or even a 2-year-old or
you can learn how to make the proper
sacrifices and you can grow the hell up
and you can have an eye to the longer
term which is exactly what happens once
you start to care for children and then
what the wealth that is genuine wealth
starts to acre to you plus plus you
don't get killed and you know gunned
down in a gang fight when you're like 22
so so so all of that's happening in the
verses that he's laying out in his you
know very straight-faced straight laced
witty manner I love his I love his Thug
hoodie too that's like good work Ben
that's extreme I saw someone yesterday
they called him little shop L shop I
thought that was great I think everyone
should call Ben Shapiro little shop for
the rest of his life look at the graphs
look at my charts you're blowing money
on strippers and cars you go into prison
I'm on televisions no one knows who you
are okay so there
you know so the other thing Ben's
pointing to there is well prison and
death that's not great that's not a
great outcome you know uh and and
then he's also pointing out too
something we know to be a fact so about
three to five% of people have a
psychopathic narcissistic tilt that's
significant enough to be clinically
relevant so that's you know one person
out of 20 or
30 what that shows is it's not that it's
not a particularly successful strategy
you could think about it as a niche
strategy you know you can survive and
propagate to some degree if you're a
psychopathic exploiter but it's not a
good strategy partly because people
catch on partly because you can't
cooperate with other people because once
you screwed them once or twice so to
speak they're not going to have anything
to do with you how we know this so
Psychopaths betray everyone else but
they also betray their futur s and
that's why they end up in prison and you
might say Well they're doing this to
gain attention and Ben's point is well
whatever attention you gain is going to
be pretty damn fleeting you know it's
not going to last and plus it's not real
it's based completely it's based on a
tissue of maav alion and manipulative
lies it's not a good strategy now it's
complicated because a lot of these tough
guys who use these short-term mating
strategies and power you know they are
in some ways more courageous than the
absolutely useless weasels who do
nothing but remain dependent for their
entire life and that's partly what it
accounts for the attraction of the
Shadow you know shadow figures dark
figures dark heroes anti-heroes in
movies and so on you know the the
ability to integrate that aggression is
a developmental milestone you know a boy
who's too dependent has to integrate his
aggression so that he can push his
mother away even aggressively and move
into the world right so the aggression
has its place you can't you can't
dispense with it you can't like
surgically excise toxic masculinity or
the testicles that give rise to it which
we seem to be doing to a radical degree
in our society it has to be integrated
it's everything in its right place right
everything in its proper order
everything properly subdued and set
where it's supposed to be in the proper
Heavenly hierarchy that's Adam's job by
the way that's the job that God gives
him in the Garden of Eden right to name
everything to speak properly and to put
everything in its proper place and
that's what the Tom and banner are
trying to do in this video you know in
this artistic way and that is what
everyone who's listening to it is trying
to do even if they don't know it
okay parents Nikki Tak some notes I just
did this for fun all my people download
this let's get a billboard number one I
don't care if I offend
you I was put here to upset
you you can crying you can scream you
can ride in the street you defunded the
police now there's no one to protect you
out by
you I ask myself
what let's just keep it real facts don't
care
how Okay so so let's look at that for a
minute I'm the man who don't respect you
okay so imagine women have this problem
with with men right because they they
have to evaluate men to see to
distinguish the genuine providers the
genuinely productive and generous men
and hopefully a man with a spine from
the psychopathic narcissists who act
like that but aren't the real thing
right and we know that younger women
have a more difficult time with that
than older women because they don't have
the experience now men have an analogous
problem which is how to differentiate
between the women who pretend to be
compassionate and caring and therefore
productive and generous and who do that
to elevate their femininity and their
moral status and women who would
actually commit let's say to a long-term
relationship and to the care of actually
dependent people which is very hard it's
very hard to care for infants it's very
hard to care for sick old people right
and that's a lot more difficult and
parading around your compassion like a
false flag and so when Tom says that
he's the man who I'm the man who don't
respect you what he means by that is
that he has developed the perspicacity
the Acuity of vision to distinguish
between people who are truly
compassionate and so that would be the
genuine mothers of the world or those
with a genuine and maternal impulse and
those who are just parading this false
flag to look good for their friends and
for every for anybody who's foolish
enough to be entranced by their their
claim so all right let's
[Music]
continue VI I'm be the man oh yes so I'm
going to be the man so what is Tom
saying it's like well he's being called
upon to be a compassionate Ally and he
has enough sanity to distinguish between
false and true compassion and he's
decided that even if he has
to suffer the slings and arrows of
Outrageous Fortune he's going to be a
tough guy and he's going to say what the
hell he has to say and let the and let
and let the and let the chips fall where
they're going to fall now I would say
also for you men that are listening
that's also something that makes men
truly attractive to women who are
actually Discerning right that capacity
to stand up against the mob the
Psychopaths and to differentiate between
genuine andal false compassion and you
really need to do that as a father you
know you learn this when you have little
kids is that you have a finite amount of
energy and you want to devote it to the
care of those who are truly in need
that'll be your parents at some point
it'll be your wife at some point you as
well because everybody gets sick and old
and but even more importantly it's your
children you don't want to waste that
energy on the false cries of the um what
would you call the falsely oppressed and
we're being called upon to do that
non-stop that's really right at the core
the culture wars and all that's being
pointed to in this video that's why it's
a number one video you know it's not
just it's a joke you know but it's a
joke that hits the target a joke doesn't
become that popular unless it hits the
target you you you you just try to get
attention being triggered all you have
you mad you mad you mad you blame
everybody else for every problem you can
yeah okay so there Tom talks about being
triggered and getting attention that way
so that's that false cry and then he
moves into the next part of this song
which is a discussion of Madness let's
say you mad okay well there mad has two
meanings right you're angry and bitter
and resentful like Cain who ends up
killing his Idol his ideal Abel so
you're mad you're angry you're bitter
and resentful bitterness and resentment
man those poison your soul that plus
arrogance and deceit and you're
definitely in hell and then mad is also
insane and if you pursue these shortterm
strategies of Hedonism and power and
chaotic divisiveness there's no
difference between that and Insanity so
the madness goes two ways and of course
as you descend into madness you're going
to become more angry and destructive and
then you get another Vicious Circle
going so yeah that's not good it's guess
it's cool to be the victim well if
that's all you've got you know when Tom
said he's not going to be the victim and
that you know one of the things that you
learn in the story of Job for example
example so job is terribly tortured by
God terribly he loses everything and
becomes extremely ill and he refuses to
play
victim as a matter of Faith it's a
proclamation everybody has a reason to
construe themselves as a victim life is
very very difficult and unfair things
happen to people all the time so do you
play the victim well playing the victim
is the Eternal Pathway to Hell
fundamentally especially when you also
then start to identify the victimizer
because if you're a victim and you're
innocent then the victimizer is the
perpetrator and the ultimate perpetrator
is no is nothing else conceptually than
Satan himself and so once you've placed
Satan himself in the midst of a group
let's say the Jews then there's
absolutely nothing that bars your action
and so then you can have all that
resentment and anger and Madness it
Finds Its Target you wonder why the
Nazis went after the Jews it's the
Eternal story you put Satan it's himself
right the victimizer in the midst of an
ethnic group which is like the
definition of racism and and you play
this game that all the virtues on the
side of the poor innocent victims as if
they're innocent babies and they're not
and all the perpetration is on the side
of the of the of the victimizers and
then you can add another twist to that
isn't it so lovely that if you're
unsuccessful you can identify the
successful with the victimizers because
then you can attribute your fa failure
to your own moral virtue what a good
deal for you if you really want to be
insane and angry and then it's pretty
hard on the people who've been
successful isn't it because now you've
identified them with evil itself now if
you take the most successful people in
your culture and I mean the most
genuinely productive and generous and
you start to identify them with evil
itself how the hell long do you think
your culture is going to last think
about that because it's it's not that
many people who are hyperproductive and
generous and if you take them out you're
done and if you don't believe that you
go read about what happened in the
Soviet Union in the 1920s and see what
you conclude or in MA China and you'll
see exactly how that plays out and you
might think if you're a bitter resentful
angry mad sad victim well it's worth it
because the whole goddamn system is so
corrupt it should be burned just burned
to the ground it's like fair enough you
know but you'll be one of the people
who's thrown by your carnivorous allies
onto the fire first along with everyone
you love and I wouldn't recommend
[Music]
that I never I'm I
ain't I don't care if I offend
you I was put here to say
you you can crying you can scream you
can ride in the streets you defunded the
police now there's no one to protect you
I hope I offend
you I as myself what we been
do let's just keep it real facts don't
get how you feel man if you want my
pronouns I'm the man I'm the man who
don't respect you okay so there's one
other thing I'll point to and we'll
we'll we'll draw this to a close let's
just keep it real the the postmodern
ethos that's allied with neomarxism this
insistence in a victimizer victim
dichotomy is also allied with a a a a
philosophical claim and the
philosophical claim is that meaning
itself is only cultur
and that it's also only instantiated in
language and if you accept that well
then you can you can play the
game of assuming that gender for example
is nothing but a cultural construct and
that people can be anything they say
they are because you're making the claim
that the world is the world's reality is
instantiated entirely in the semantic or
the linguistic it's the ultimate
pretension of the luciferian intellect
it's a good way of thinking about it
when Tom says let's just keep it real
what he's pointing to is the existence
of levels of reality underneath the
purely linguistic and so one of those
would be as the bloody postmodern
whining nihilists have it themselves is
well there's a reality in the emotional
sphere right there's the reality of
feelings now they're not the only
reality obviously obviously there's the
reality of material fact there's the
reality of transpersonal value there's a
lot of different Transcendent realities
and hypothetically this is the
monotheistic claim hypothetically all of
those Transcendent realities unite in a
single superordinate reality and if
that's not the case then we're bound to
divisiveness
so all right so let's sum this up you
have a collaboration between two types
of Creator in this video who are
analyzing using poetic imagery the core
elements of the culture War that's
engulfed us way down below the political
right at the level of the Sacred and
they're using a blend of humor and
creative imagery to lay out the
conceptual territory and they're using
music to help people music and Rhythm to
help people attune themselves to the
argument and allying that with a with a
high degree of of wit and and and and a
satirical intent and so it's very
masterfully done and Ben you know I
think in particular Ben is to be
commanded here for allowing himself to
enter the domain of the Absurd now he's
got an absurdist side it's interesting
to see because he's a very straight laac
person and a very conservative person uh
not least as a consequence of being an
orthodox Jew but he has this absurdist
capability that that allows him to
capitalize on the entertaining side of
things and so that's very interesting to
see manifested in this so anyways you
never know what's going on beneath the
surface do you right right there's
endless depths to everything that's for
sure everything is a burning bush right
everything's a gateway to the sacred if
you pay attention to it enough and
that's definitely the case with with
cultural Productions of this sort
especially when they strike a cord and
so that's why I thought it might be
worth running through an analysis of
this Preposterous piece of artistic
production thanks very much for your
time and
[Music]
attention